Late for an appointment, I hurried into the elevator and asked the nice looking woman in the corner to hit the button to the 10th floor. We exchanged polite smiles and continued to both look forward as if elevator doors were now somehow a matter of interest. I had done this plenty of times before, but that day I was particularly nervous. I can not recall how much time passed before the woman, who looked relatively calm just a few moments ago, was clutching her stomach and let out a ferocious scream containing the last words I had expected to hear. “The baby is coming!”. I had no idea that this woman was pregnant, but suddenly I found myself staring down a screaming mother-to-be who was awaiting my response. I had to be quick, I had to think on my feet. Two options came to mind, I either hold her hand and wait, or I get down and attempt to deliver this baby myself. I dropped to my knees. SCENE. 
	
Life does not come with a script. Every situation can yield an endless amount of outcomes that we hold the power to decide, and it is what we do with that power that makes us who we are. Improv has taught me how to have something thrown at me and respond in the fastest and most optimal manner. It is more than just comedy, and in some senses, not about comedy at all. Improv is about working collaboratively with others, being confident, and being able to work with any situation, no matter how unfavorable it may be. The scene where I helped deliver my friends imaginary baby came from my very first improv performance, and was what made me realize how much this art had actually taught me. I stayed calm in a situation that had definitely caught me off guard, I thought quickly, and I acted.

While I may have started my improv career to further pursue my interest in comedy, the skills that I took away from it turned out to prove beneficial in a majority of my daily endeavors. One of my uses of time that I particularlly pride myself on is my work as co-president in the 'Budding Friendships' program at my temple, where teens from the community come together with childrens with special needs of all ages. As co-president, one of my main responsibilities is to plan and organize the events for the group, ranging from arts and crafts at the temple to trips to our local bowling alley. Unfortunately it is not uncommon for the children to not enjoy the planned activity, and once again I find myself thinking on my feet. Friendship Club is supposed to be a fun break for everyone involved so in a situation like this, I employ the same fundamentals I would on the improv stage. One instance that actually made me feel as if I was up on the stage using my improv tactics came in a slightly different setting. During my time with 'Budding Friendships' I formed a particularlly strong bond with one of the children, Owen. We started meeting more frequently outside of the club and our relationship evolved into something I am even prouder of. We spend a lot of time working on his academics, but even more time playing video games or working on passion projects, and this is where improv has really come in handy. For one of our first projects we spent several weeks trying to construct a lego tower with an overwhelmingly large amount of pieces and overwhelmingly small instruction manual. It did not take long for us to hit a road block leaving Owen completely frustrated and willing to abandon our project right then and there. I was caught off guard, scared to react in the wrong way. My teamwork skills were being put to the test, so I did as I was taught. I stayed calm, I thought quickly, and I acted. A few minutes to clear our heads was all my friend needed before he was ready to come back and tackle this tower again with me.

My improv skills do not only apply to interactions with others, but rather serve as my go-to for personal struggles. Unfortunately, having to work with unfavorable situations has been a common theme in my life, but just like in improv, we hold all the power to decide what we do with these situations. I spent my childhood trying everything I could from various sports to all different instruments, but the one thing that truly took my heart was lacrosse. I started in a small community league, and as I got older the time commitments grew just as fast my love for the game. However, after just my first year of playing in High School I was diagnosed with schreumans disease, a deformity in the shape of my spine, explaining the constant pain I had begun to feel. After seeing more doctors than I could count, and long consideration with my family, I decided it was time to hang up my cleats. I now found myself without my true passion, and a ton of free time. I could not let this new found time go to waste, not only for the sake of productivity, but also for my happiness. I needed to take this poor situation and somehow use it to my advantage, keep moving forward. Luckily, the perfect solution fell directly into my lap. My sister and I had come up with an idea for a mobile application to reinvent the way we choose our next meals. The idea soon turned into a reality and began to advance further than we had ever hoped, further than it could have if I did not have any time to dedicate towards its growth. Along the way, I managed to make this once devestating situatuion even more beneficial. As I watched the software development team slowly turn our dream into code, I found myself fascinated and decided to pursue this aspect of the app even further and explore the world of computer science. This soon began to take form as my newest passion, as I enrolled in introductory courses in school and would eventually participate in a three week program at the University of Pennsylvania where I had the opportunity to design a fully functioning application myself. I could not be stopped there. To tie it all together I found myself spending a week in Croatia interning with the development team that helped my sister and I in this journey. I dont know how I would have reacted to the very sudden ending of my lacorsse career had I never taken improv, but what I do know is that I took this situation, thought of how to make the most of it, and took it from there.


